Praise for
Quality Investing
“Investing is a continuous process of learning, and it will be a rare investor who does not glean substantive lessons from the notable AKO story of quality investing.”
– Stephen Blyth, President and CEO, Harvard Management Company, Professor of the Practice of Statistics, Harvard University
“Capturing both the science and the art that have driven AKO’s success,
Quality Investing
is equal parts investing handbook and ode to the beauty of truly great businesses.”
– Peter H. Ammon, Chief Investment Officer, University of Pennsylvania
“
Quality Investing
answers the riddle of what you get when you cross Peter Lynch’s One Up on Wall Street with Seth Klarman’s Margin of Safety. By combining a discerning eye for sustainable growth with a disciplined calculus to buy over horizons when the probabilities are favorable, the book articulates a profitable approach to the art of investing.”
– Jason Klein, Senior Vice President & Chief Investment Officer, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center
“I recommend
Quality Investing
highly as a guide to harness the power of core investment principles. Shows why the best long-term ‘margin of safety’ comes not from an investment’s price but from the value of a company’s competitive advantage.”
– Thomas A. Russo, Partner, Gardner, Russo & Gardner
“
Quality Investing
, from a team of top quality investors, provides a clear and rigorous analysis of a highly successful, long-term investment strategy. In an increasingly short-term investment world, the book’s insights are likely to remain hugely valuable.”
– Neil Ostrer, Founder, Marathon Asset Management
“
Quality Investing
describes a unique approach to evaluating investment opportunities based on real life examples and experience. Replete with interesting lessons and insights relevant not just for investors, but for any business leader seeking to build an enduring, high-quality company,
Quality Investing
is an outstanding book and should be required reading for business leaders and MBA students as well as for investors.”
– Henrik Ehrnrooth, President & CEO, KONE
“The book is a crisply-written mix of sound investment principles, insightful commercial patterns, and colorful business cases. A real pleasure to read.”
– Hassan Elmasry, Founder and Lead Portfolio Manager, Independent Franchise Partners
“AKO Capital were one of the first to recognise Ryanair’s secret formula... An outstandingly handsome CEO, a brilliant strategy, all underpinned with our innate humility. These guys are geniuses. For a better life you must read this book... and fly Ryanair!!”
– Michael O’Leary, Chief Executive, Ryanair
“Quality counts. If you are a long term investor, it’s hard to find a more important factor as to what will power your ultimate investment returns. That said, quality is impossible to measure with precision because it often embodies more subjective qualitative factors than easily quantifiable measurements. Quality is also dynamic and changes over time. This book attempts through case studies, descriptions, and quantifiable measurement to help investors think systematically about quality and its importance. Enjoy!”
– Thomas S. Gayner, President and Chief Investment Officer, Markel Corporation
“An indispensable addition to any value investing library,
Quality Investing
will appeal to novices and experts alike. Vivid real-life case studies make for an engaging read that shows the power of compounding that comes with owning high-quality businesses for the long term.”
– John Mihaljevic, ‘The Manual of Ideas’
“An excellent read: clear and insightful.
Quality Investing
is an important aid to shareholders when evaluating any company.”
– Albert Baehny, Chairman, Geberit
“
Quality Investing
is an outstanding resource for all investors seeking to enhance their knowledge of the critical drivers for investment success. Several important concepts for discerning and evaluating outstanding companies are clearly explained and further elaborated upon through many specific company examples. I highly recommend
Quality Investing
to all prospective investors from beginners to experienced practitioners.”
– Paul Lountzis, Lountzis Asset Management, LLC

Quality Investing
Owning the best companies for the long term
Lawrence A. Cunningham, Torkell T. Eide and Patrick Hargreaves

HARRIMAN HOUSE LTD
18 College Street
Petersfield
Hampshire
GU31 4AD
GREAT BRITAIN
Tel: +44 (0)1730 233870
Email: enquiries@harriman-house.com
Website: www.harriman-house.com
First published in Great Britain in 2016
Copyright © AKO Capital LLP
The right of Lawrence A. Cunningham, Torkell T. Eide and Patrick Hargreaves to be identified as the authors has been asserted in accordance with the Copyright, Design and Patents Act 1988.
Print ISBN: 978-0-85719-501-2
eBook ISBN: 978-0-85719-512-8
British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data
A CIP catalogue record for this book can be obtained from the British Library.
All rights reserved; no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise without the prior written permission of the Publisher. This book may not be lent, resold, hired out or otherwise disposed of by way of trade in any form of binding or cover other than that in which it is published without the prior written consent of the Publisher.
Whilst every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of this publication the publisher, editor, authors and authors’ employers cannot accept responsibility for any errors, omissions, mis-statements or mistakes.
Quality Investing
is intended for your general information and use; it is not a promotion of specific services. In particular, it does not constitute any form of specific advice or recommendation by the publisher, editor, authors or authors’ employers and is not intended to be relied upon by users in making (or refraining from making) investment decisions. Appropriate 

=== [MIDDLE OMITTED] ===

 geographies. Cognac, for example, may only originate in a certain region of France, by law. Sometimes the association is less direct, but no less powerful: Swiss chocolate sounds tastier than Finnish chocolate and leather goods from Italy or France are often perceived to be of higher quality.
Trust and consistency
A brand is a promise; an implicit guarantee of qualities or characteristics. Sometimes these promises are bold (BMW: “The Ultimate Driving Machine”), sometimes more humble. Whatever it is, the promise needs to be honored consistently. The phenomenal global success of McDonald’s is built on a simple formula: inexpensive food of consistent quality delivered quickly in a clean environment. Although McDonald’s faces headwinds from increasing health focus in developed markets, its simple, unfailing formula drove unprecedented global success for a restaurant brand.
Diageo: Brand Strength
Diageo, born out of the 1997 merger of Guinness and Grand Metropolitan, may be a relatively modern beast but the portfolio of brands it controls has remarkable and enviable heritage. Many can trace their roots back to the 18th and 19th centuries. For example, Justerini & Brooks (J&B whisky) was founded in London in 1749 and in 1758 Arthur Guinness brewed his first batch of the black stuff at St. James’ Gate in Dublin, which still produces Guinness to this day. Several of the Scotch distilleries were founded in the early 1800s, Lagavulin in 1816, and other brands like Tanqueray and Smirnoff date to the early-mid 1800s.
Most of these brands, headlined by Guinness, are stories of deep heritage plus savvy marketing that drives huge brand equity: enabling premium pricing and strong profitability. Just one example of how this brand history can drive both volume and pricing growth can be found in Scotch whisky, Diageo’s largest category in emerging markets and accounting for one third of its gross profits. Johnnie Walker is the company’s most important Scotch brand and its heritage is central to its appeal. It was first shipped internationally in 1860 and won its first award in Australia in 1879. The famous square bottles were designed to make these early shipments easier.
The brand enjoys a significant competitive advantage due to this unrivalled international history. But antiquity alone does not sell whisky. To maximise its impact, the Johnnie Walker brand has been supported by considerable long-term investment at a level that simply would not be economic for a smaller brand. Diageo spends nearly $2.5 billion annually on advertising and is regularly acclaimed for the impact and vision of its promotions. The Keep Walking campaign for Johnnie Walker resonated with consumers and the brand has grown to become the global category leader in Scotch by volume and value.
In the Scotch market, time is Diageo’s friend in another way as well. By definition, Scotch must be aged at least three years, in a barrel, in Scotland. Whisky matured for longer, often for more than a d

=== [END SECTION] ===

ley, ‘A renewal of vows’, April 2013.
See Chuck Joyce and Kimball Mayer, ‘Profits for the Long Run: Affirming the Case for Quality’, GMO 2012. This study examined 1,000 large US companies from 1965-2012 based on financial variables commonly associated with quality. The factors used to indicate quality were low leverage, high profitability, low profit volatility and low beta. The study compared performance of the companies in the highest quartile and compared it to benchmark returns. The factors all delivered annual outperformance versus benchmark over the period. The results ranged from 0.8% for low leverage to 0.4% for high profitability and low profit volatility. Low beta, which by its own definition should yield below-market returns, delivered annualized outperformance of 0.5%.
Another source of market bias and pricing error is the skewed incentive to accumulate assets. Global equity markets remain dominated by long-only institutional investors that make the vast majority of their money from assets under management. Inflows into asset managers are determined by historical performance. But inflows are far greater when stock market averages rise than when they fall. To outperform in rising (bull) markets, therefore, becomes more valuable than outperforming in bear markets, when equity markets decline. This skews demand towards stocks with the potential to rise in price more than average in bull markets (high beta stocks) and away from stocks that are predictable and shine more consistently in bull and bear markets alike (low beta stocks).
An institutional bias towards high-beta stocks may contribute yet another source of quality underpricing. Quality companies, because of their relative predictability growth and stable earnings, often have lower betas. A study comparing such categories concluded that investors are willing to overpay for high-beta stocks compared to low-beta stocks. See Frazzini and Pedersen, ‘Betting Against Beta’, 9 October 2011. This was attributed to the fact that most institutional investors are restricted from using leverage. Consequently, they must overweight high-beta stocks to generate higher returns than their benchmark. This stokes artificially strong demand for high-beta stocks relative to low-beta stocks.
Source: Datastream. Average US mutual fund holding periods have been consistently under one year for the past five years.
Source: Goldman Sachs SUSTAIN: ‘Returns and Alpha’ (presentation), 6 September 2011.
“There is a strong presumption in economics that, in a competitive environment, profitability is mean reverting.” Eugene F. Fama and Kenneth R. French, ‘Forecasting Profitability and Earnings’, 2000, p. 161.
Philip Fisher,
Common Stocks and Uncommon Profits
(Harper Bros, 1958).
Daniel Kahneman,
Thinking, Fast and Slow
(Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2011).
A2 share class of AKO Fund Limited (the long-short fund) compared with MSCI Europe (Net) in local currency October 1, 2005 to September 30, 2015.
Quality Investing