The
Education
of a
Value
Investor
My Transformative Quest for
Wealth, Wisdom, and Enlightenment
Guy Spier

The author and publisher have provided this e-book to you for your personal use only. You may not make this e-book publicly available in any way.
Copyright infringement is against the law. If you believe the copy of this e-book you are reading infringes on the author’s copyright, please notify the publisher at:
us.macmillanusa.com/piracy.

To my parents, Marilyn and Simon Spier, and to my sister, Tanya.
To my children, Eva, Isaac, and Sarah.
To my wife, Lory:
You are all my reasons.

Contents
Introduction
1: From the Belly of the Beast to Warren Buffett
2: The Perils of an Elite Education
3: The Fire Walk: My First Steps as a Value Investor
4: The New York Vortex
5: Meeting a Master
6: Lunch with Warren
7: The Financial Crisis: Into the Void
8: My Own Version of Omaha: Creating the Ideal Environment
9: Learning to Tap Dance: A New Sense of Playfulness
10: Investing Tools: Building a Better Process
11: An Investor’s Checklist: Survival Strategies from a Surgeon
12: Doing Business the Buffett-Pabrai Way
13: The Quest for True Value
Acknowledgments
Bibliography and Guide to Further Reading
Index

Introduction
My goal in writing this book is to share some of what I’ve learned on my path as an investor. It’s about the education of
this
investor, not any other investor. This story is not an investment how-to. It’s not a road map. Rather, it’s the story of my journey and of what I’ve learned along the way. With my own flaws and foibles and idiosyncratic abilities—and despite my considerable blind spots.
Over the years, I’ve stumbled across some profound insights and powerful tools that I’d like to share with you. In most cases, these are not things that are written about in textbooks. Because it’s a story about how things happen in the real world—and because the real world is messy—the topics are broad in scope. They range from the most insignificant of habits that I’ve developed, like what to read first, to the grandest: whom to choose as heroes and mentors and how their wisdom can change your life.
This book traces the arc of a transformation. I started off as a Gordon Gekko wannabe—brash, shortsighted, and entirely out for myself. Then a series of transformations and self-realizations led me on a path from Benjamin Graham’s
The Intelligent Investor
to Ruane Cunniff to
Poor Charlie’s Almanack
to Robert Cialdini, then to meeting Mohnish Pabrai and lunch with Warren Buffett. That $650,100 meal had a life-changing impact on me, as you will see.
Within one year of my meeting with Buffett, I let two-thirds of my staff in New York go, stashed half of my family’s belongings in storage, and shipped the other half to Zurich, where we went to live.
I stopped charging management fees to new investors in my funds. I switched off my Bloomberg monitor. And I renounced my perilous addiction to checking stock prices on a minute-by-minute basis.
I’m not necessarily advocating that you should also have lunch with Warren Buffett—especially now that the price tag has soared, hitting a high of $3.46 million in 2012! And I’m not claiming to have a special understanding of him either. What I
can
tell you is that he has had an extraordinary impact on how I invest and on the way I live my life. My hope is that I can share some of these lessons that I’ve derived from him so that they will benefit you as much as they have benefited me.
It took me the best part of two decades to get onto a more enlightened path in life, and I’ve made many missteps and lost much time along the way. Hopefully, this book will help you to reach your enlightened path faster, and with fewer missteps. As Buffett once said, “Try to learn from your mistakes—better yet, learn from the mistakes of others!”
I submit to you that if you learn only some of the lessons here, you cannot help but become rich—and perhaps wildly rich. Certainly, the wisdom I’ve gleaned—not just from my heroes, but from my own mistakes and successes—has helped me immeasurably as an investor. As I write this, I’ve had a cumulative return of 463 percent since founding the Aquamarine Fund in 1997, versus 167 percent for the S&P 500 index. In other words, $1 million invested in the fund would now be worth $5.63 million, versus $2.7 million if it had been invested in the S&P 500.
But this book is also about the inner game of investing, and by extension, the inner game of life. As I’ve come to discover, investing is about much more than money. So as your wealth grows, I hope you will also come to realize that the money is largely irrelevant. And what you will want to do with the bulk of your wealth is give it back to society.
You’re not quite sure about that last part? That’s okay. For much of my life, I wasn’t sure about it myself, and a part of me still doubts it. Like you, I’m a work in progress.
We’re told a lot these days about why capitalism has failed us. We’re told that greedy bankers and irresponsible CEOs need to be reined in with more stringent regulations, and that wealth should be more aggressively redistributed. Perhaps. But greed can also be a vehicle to something deeper and more soulful. In my experience, you can start out as a hungry young capitalist, driven almost entirely by greed, and find that it gradually leads you to a more enlightened mind-set. In that case, greed may be good after all—not if it merely motivates you to acquire more, but if it drives you toward that inner journey of spiritual growth and enlightenment.
I expand on that lesson at the very end. But first, let’s enter the belly of the beast.

1
From the Belly of the Beast to Warren Buffett
O that this too too sullied flesh would melt,
Thaw and resolve itself into a dew!
. . .
How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable,
Seem to me all the uses of this world!
Fie on’t! ah fie! ’tis an unweeded garden,
That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
Possess it merely.
—
Hamlet,
act 1, scene

=== [MIDDLE OMITTED] ===

ities. After all, in moving to Zurich I had a chance to start over with a clean slate, putting into practice all that I had learned about how I could function more effectively. I didn’t want to blow it.
Next, I set about finding the perfect office—another key component of my new environment. Initially, I made a mistake, renting an office for a year on the Bahnhofstrasse, a ritzy street that is Zurich’s own enclave of Extremistan. It’s an elegant area, full of expensive stores. But super-rich settings like this are not ideal for me since they stimulate unhealthy appetites. So I soon decided to move to an office
on the other side of the river, a 15-minute walk from the Bahnhofstrasse’s glitz and glamour. For me, this feels like a safe distance.
The psychologist Roy Baumeister has shown that willpower is a limited resource, so we have to be careful not to deplete it. In fact, his lab discovered that even the simple act of resisting chocolate chip cookies left people with less willpower to perform subsequent tasks. In my case, I don’t want to waste my limited energy guarding myself against the envy and greed that a place like the Bahnhofstrasse might trigger in me. It’s better simply to construct my environment so that I’m not exposed to these destabilizing forces, which are likely to intensify my irrationality. The key is to free my mind from any unnecessary mental effort so I can use it for more constructive tasks that are likely to benefit me and my shareholders.
As I pondered these issues, I also began to recognize that other investors I admire had adopted a similar approach to building their environment, whether consciously or not. Mohnish, for one, works in a less-than-glamorous office park in Southern California with no other financial institutions nearby. I once asked him why he hadn’t set himself up in an attractive office in one of Irvine’s fancy shopping centers, close to his favorite restaurants. “Oh, Guy,” he replied. “I don’t need all that razzmatazz!” I have no doubt that he understands what the area around him can do to his mind.
Likewise, Seth Klarman, one of the most successful investors on the planet, works out of a decidedly unflashy office in Boston, far from the intoxications of Wall Street. If he wanted, he could easily rent the top floor of a gleaming skyscraper overlooking the Charles River. Nick Sleep set up his office in London near a Cornish pasty shop on the King’s Road, far from the grandeur of Mayfair, which has become Britain’s hedge fund mecca. Allen Benello, the manager of White River Investment Partners, works out of a nondescript office in San Francisco, nowhere near the city’s financial district. And Buffett, as we’ve discussed, is tucked away in Omaha’s Kiewit Plaza—another building that is not exactly known for its razzmatazz.
This strikes me as a significant yet largely unrecognized factor in the success of these investors. Small wonder, then, that I wanted to create my own version of Omaha.
That said, I’m diff

=== [END SECTION] ===

e,
123
TEDxZurich conference,
123
,
185
Telechips,
12
–14,
18
thank-you letters,
61
–3,
65
,
73
Think and Grow Rich
(Hill),
35
Tilson, Whitney,
54
,
157
–8
Toastmasters,
177
Tongue, Glenn,
53
transparency,
33
,
42
.
See also
authenticity
TransTech,
63
“Trauma Reveals the Roots of Resilience”
(Fosha),
17
truthfulness,
66
–7.
See also
authenticity
Tupper, Earl Silas,
161
Tupperware Plastics Company,
161
–4
Tversky, Amos,
136
Tweedy, Browne,
37
,
49
value investing,
24
,
26
,
35
,
42
approach to life,
65
bridge and,
124
–5
and the financial crisis of 2008–2009,
85
,
96
inner journey of,
26
,
50
–1,
187
–8
and moral integrity,
36
–7
and rational thought,
19
,
50
–1,
85
use of the phrase,
187
versus Wall Street,
146
See also
investing
Value Investing Congress,
68
,
88
Value Investors Club,
53
Value Line,
36
VALUEx,
124
,
177
venture capital,
8
–9
Wais, Diana,
32
Wallman, Steven,
144
Wal-Mart,
68
,
142
,
164
–5,
168
Walton, Sam,
142
Wang Chuan-Fu,
126
Watsa, Prem,
35
,
73
wealth,
2
–3,
65
,
78
,
82
,
109
,
185
,
188
–91
Weizmann Institute of Science,
123
,
184
Whitman, Marty,
106
Williams, Cecil,
75
–6,
78
–9
Wilson, Edward O.,
104
Wolf of Wall Street, The
(film),
11
Wood, Kenton,
15
Yellow BRKers (Buffett fan club),
72
Young Presidents’ Organization,
145
,
177
,
193
–4
Zeckhauser, Richard,
125
Zweig, Jason,
102
Zynga,
128

About the Author
Guy Spier
has run the Aquamarine Fund for 17 years, achieving an impressive record of market-beating returns. An ardent disciple of Warren Buffett, Guy launched the fund with $15 million in assets, closely replicating the approach of Buffett’s original partnerships. Guy was educated at Oxford University, where he was a tutorial partner of the current British Prime Minister David Cameron and came top of his class in economics. After a stint in management consulting, he attended Harvard Business School, then worked as an investment banker before starting his own fund. He is a regular commentator in the media, having appeared on CNN, CNBC, Bloomberg Television, and Fox Business News.

THE EDUCATION OF A VALUE INVESTOR
. Copyright © 2014 by Guy Spier. All rights reserved. For information, address Palgrave Macmillan Trade, 175 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10010.
www.us.macmillan.com
Cover photograph of Butterfly © 4X6/ISTOCKPHOTO.COM
Cover illustration of Pattern © XACTO/ISTOCKPHOTO.COM
Cover design by Cecilia Wong
The Library of Congress has cataloged the print edition as follows:
Spier, Guy.
The education of a value investor / Guy Spier.
pages cm
ISBN 978-1-137-27881-4 (hardback)
1. Spier, Guy. 2. Investment advisors—United States—Biography.
3. Investment bankers—United States—Biography. 4. Investments. I. Title.
HG4928.5.S65A3 2014
332.6092—dc23
[B]
2014010919
eBooks may be purchased for business or promotional use. For information on bulk purchases, please contact Macmillan Corporate and Premium Sales Department by writing to
MacmillanSpecialMarkets@macmillan.com
e-ISBN 978-1-137-47124-6
First Edition: September 2014