Table of Contents
Title Page
Copyright Page
Foreword
Acknowledgments
Introduction
It’s the Business that Matters
The Long-Term Approach
Having the Courage of Your Convictions
Let’s Get Started
Chapter  1 -  The Five Rules for Successful Stock Investing
Do Your Homework
Find Economic Moats
Have a Margin of Safety
Hold for the Long Haul
Know When to Sell
Investor’s Checklist: The Five Rules for Successful Stock Investing
Chapter  2 -  Seven Mistakes to Avoid
Swinging for the Fences
Believing that It’s Different This Time
Falling in Love with Products
Panicking When the Market Is Down
Trying to Time the Market
Ignoring Valuation
Relying on Earnings for the Whole Story
Investor’s Checklist: Seven Mistakes to Avoid
Chapter  3 -  Economic Moats
Evaluating Profitability
Building an Economic Moat
How Long Will It Last?
Industry Analysis
Investor’s Checklist: Economic Moats
Chapter  4 -  The Language of Investing
The Basics
Where the Money Goes
Practical Financials—The Statements in Use
Investor’s Checklist: The Language of Investing
Chapter  5 -  Financial Statements Explained
The Balance Sheet
The Income Statement
The Statement of Cash Flows
Conclusion
Investor’s Checklist: Financial Statements Explained
Chapter  6 -  Analyzing a Company—The Basics
Growth
Profitability
Financial Health
The Bear Case
Conclusion
Investor’s Checklist: Analyzing a Company—The Basics
Chapter  7 - Analyzing a Company—Management
Compensation
Character
Running the Business
Investor’s Checklist: Analyzing a Company—Management
Chapter  8 -  Avoiding Financial Fakery
Six Red Flags
Seven Other Pitfalls to Watch Out For
Investor’s Checklist: Avoiding Financial Fakery
Chapter 9 -  Valuation—The Basics
Paying Up Rarely Pays Off
Using Price Multiples Wisely
Say Yes to Yield
Investor’s Checklist: Valuation—The Basics
Chapter  10 - Valuation:—Intrinsic Value
Cash Flow, Present Value, and Discount Rates
Calculating Present Value
Fun with Discount Rates
Calculating Perpetuity Values
Margin of Safety
Conclusion
Investor’s Checklist: Valuation—Intrinsic Value
Chapter  11 -  Putting It All Together
Advanced Micro Devices
Biomet
Conclusion
Chapter  12 -  The 10-Minute Test
Does the Firm Pass a Minimum Quality Hurdle?
Has the Company Ever Made an Operating Profit?
Does the Company Generate Consistent Cash Flow from Operations?
Are Returns on Equity Consistently above 10 Percent, with Reasonable Leverage?
Is Earnings Growth Consistent or Erratic?
How Clean Is the Balance Sheet?
Does the Firm Generate Free Cash Flow?
How Much “Other” Is There?
Has the Number of Shares Outstanding Increased Markedly over the Past Several Years?
Beyond the 10 Minutes
Chapter  13 - A Guided Tour of the Market
Where to Look
Conclusion
Chapter  14 -  Health Care
Economic Moats in Health Care
Pharmaceuticals
Generic Drug Companies
Biotechnology
Medical Device Companies
Health Insurance/Managed Care
Investor’s Checklist: Health Care
Chapter  15 -  Consumer Services
Companies We See Every Day
Restaurants
Retail
Conclusion
Investor’s Checklist: Consumer Services
Chapter  16 - Business Services
Outsourcing Trend
Economic Moats in Business Services
Technology-Based Businesses
People-Based Businesses
Hard-Asset-Based Businesses
Investor’s Checklist: Business Services
Chapter  17 -  Banks
It’s All about Risk
Managing Credit Risk
Selling Liquidity
Managing Interest Rate Risk
Economic Moats in Banks
Hallmarks of Success for Banks
Investor’s Checklist: Banks
Chapter  18 - Asset Management and Insurance
Asset Management
Life Insurance
Property/Casualty Insurance
Investor’s Checklist: Asset Management and Insurance
Chapter  19 -  Software
Segments of the Software Industry
Economic Moats in the Software Industry
Software Accounting 101
Red Flags
Hallmarks of Success for Software Companies
What’s Not to Like about Software?
Conclusion
Investor’s Checklist: Software
Chapter  20 -  Hardware
What Drives the Hardware Industry
Hardware Industry Dynamics
Economic Moats in Hardware
Hallmarks of Success for Hardware Companies
Investor’s Checklist: Hardware
Chapter  21 -  Media
How Media Companies Make Money
Economic Moats in Media
Publishing Profits
Broadcasting and Cable
Investing in the Entertainment Industry
Hallmarks of Success in the Media Sector
Risks in the Media Sector
Investor’s Checklist: Media
Chapter  22 -  Telecom
Telecom Economics
Economic Moats in Telecom
Hallmarks of Success in Telecom
Conclusion
Investor’s Checklist: Telecom
Chapter  23 -  Consumer Goods
How Companies Make Money in Consumer Goods
Key Strategies for Growth
What’s Not to Like in Consumer Products
Economic Moats in Consumer Goods
Hallmarks of Success in Consumer Goods
Conclusion
Investor’s Checklist: Consumer Goods
Chapter  24 -  Industrial Materials
The Problem with Cyclicality
Economic Moats in Basic Materials
Economic Moats in Industrial Materials
Hallmarks of Success in Industrial Materials
Red Flags
Finding Opportunities in Industrial Materials
Investor’s Checklist: Industrial Materials
Chapter  25 -  Energy
From the Ground
To the Pipelines
To the Refineries
To the Consumers
Providing the Services
The Impact of Commodity Prices
Economic Moats in Energy
Hallmarks of Success for Energy Companies
Risks in the Energy Sector
Conclusion
Investor’s Checklist: Energy
Chapter  26 -  Utilities
Electricity Primer
Regulation, Regulation, Regulation
Financial Characteristics of Utilities
Hallmarks of Success for Utility Companies
Risks in the Utilities Sector
The Big Picture
Investor’s Checklist: Utilities
Appendix
Recommended Readings
Morningstar Resources
Index

Foreword
BECAUSE I’M THE founder of Morningstar, you might think I invest most of my personal assets in mutual funds. The truth is I own few mutual funds. Nearly all of my assets are in stocks. Although I love funds, I have an even greater passion for stocks. Funds are great for those who don’t want to spend a lot of time doing research. But if you enjoy analyzing companies—and I think it’s a tremendous amount of fun—you can do perfectly well invest

=== [MIDDLE OMITTED] ===

ow the firm is likely to generate next year, how fast it will grow, and add the discounted value of these cash flows to a perpetuity value. If your estimated intrinsic value is very different from the market price, check your assumptions. Are you being too pessimistic or too optimistic? If you recheck your assumptions, the stock still looks undervalued, and your multiple-based analysis didn’t scream “sell,” you might just have uncovered a great investment.

13
A Guided Tour of the Market
IN THE PREVIOUS chapter, I discussed easy ways to home in on companies that will be worth your while. In the next section of the book, we’ll focus on tools for understanding different areas of the market.
As I said in Chapter 3, it’s easier for companies to make money in some industries than in others. Moreover, some industries lend themselves to the creation of economic moats more so than others, and these are the industries where you’ll want to spend most of your time. Although we don’t advocate a
top-down
investment strategy—in which you select areas of the market that you think will perform better than others and invest heavily in your top-rated industries—the economics of some industries are superior to others. Hence, you should spend more time learning about attractive industries than unattractive ones.
Every industry has its own unique dynamics and set of jargon—and some industries (such as financial services) even have financial statements that look very different from the ones we discussed in Chapter 5. I asked Morningstar’s staff of 30 equity analysts to put together a series of chapters covering just about every corner of the market. These chapters should help you wade through the different economics of each industry and understand how  companies in each industry can create economic moats—which strategies work and how you can identify companies pursuing those strategies.
Where to Look
Because you’re likely as pressed for time as every other person with a day job who also manages his or her own investments, let me try to briefly steer you toward some areas of the market that are definitely worth more of your time.
Banks and Financial Services
In general, most financial services firms are in excellent economic positions as middlemen for money. Banks in particular enjoy the enviable position of paying very little to hold on to depositors’ money (when you consider the low rates on checking accounts and all of the fee income that such accounts generate), which they then turn around and lend out at substantially higher interest rates than they’re paying to depositors. In fact, some banks do so well at levying fees and cross-selling financial products that depositors literally pay the bank to hold their money. Moreover, because banks have somewhat confusing financial statements, many investors simply pass them by or look at only the biggest and most well-known firms. By learning what makes banks and other financial services firms tick, you’ll be ahead of most

=== [END SECTION] ===

g, scanning, or otherwise, except as permitted under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without either the prior written permission of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the appropriate per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance Center, Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, 978-750-8400, fax 978-646-8600, or on the web at
www.copyright.com
. Requests to the Publisher for permission should be addressed to the Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030, 201-748-6011, fax 201-748-6008.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used their best efforts in preparing this book, they make no representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy or completeness of the contents of this book and specifically disclaim any implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by sales representatives or written sales materials. The advice and strategies contained herein may not be suitable for your situation. You should consult with a professional where appropriate. Neither the publisher nor author shall be liable for any loss of profit or any other commercial damages, including but not limited to special, incidental, consequential, or other damages.
For general information on our other products and services, or technical support, please contact our Customer Care Department within the United States at 800-762-2974, outside the United States at 317-572-3993 or fax 317-572-4002.
Certain financial information included in the The Five Rules for Successful Stock Investing is proprietary to Mergent, Inc. Copyright © 2003. Reproduction of such information in any form is prohibited. Because of the possibility of human or mechanical error by Mergent sources, Mergent or others, Mergent does not guarantee the accuracy, adequacy, completeness, timeliness or availability of any information and is not responsible for any errors or omissions or for the results obtained from the use of such information. There are no express or limited warranties, including, but not limited to, warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose or use. In no event shall Mergent be liable for any indirect, special or consequential damages in connection with subscriber’s or other’s use of such information.
Wiley also publishes its books in a variety of electronic formats. Some content that appears in print may not be available in electronic books. For more information about Wiley products, visit our web site at
www.wiley.com
.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data:
Dorsey, Pat.
The five rules for successful stock investing : Morningstar’s guide to building wealth and winning in the market / Pat Dorsey.
p. cm.
Includes bibliographical references and index.
ISBN 0-471-26965-4 (CLOTH)
1. Investments. 2. Stocks. I. Morningstar, Inc. II. Title.
HG4521.D646 2004
332.63’22—dc22
2003018287